Problem Statement: 
The 407 Express Toll Route is a highway that runs east-west just north of Toronto, and was one of the largest road construction projects in the history of Canada. The road uses a highly modern Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) system constructed by Raytheon. The ETR technology allows motorists to pass through toll routes without stopping or even opening a window. To make this happen, each highway entry and exit point is equipped with a gantry.

Processing Registered Vehicles:
The most cost-efficient way to pay for highway use is to open an account with the 407 ETR system. Accounts can be personal or linked to a company. In either case, billing information (name and address) is saved with the account. Once an account is created, vehicles can be registered with it. Registered vehicles require a small electronic tag, called a transponder, to be attached to the windshield behind the rear-view mirror. Transponders are leased for a small monthly fee. The registration includes the vehicle details. The system automatically records the entry and exit of vehicles, and creates a transaction for each trip. This is done in the following way. When the vehicle enters the highway, it passes under the overhead gantry. The locator antennae determine if the vehicle is equipped with a transponder. Next, the read / write antennae read the account number from the transponder and the point of entry, time and date is recorded. In addition, as a vehicle passes under the gantries, the system uses laser scanners to determine the class of vehicle (e.g. light vehicle, heavy single unit vehicle, heavy multiple unit vehicle). It does this by measuring the height, width and depth of each approaching vehicle. A check is made to verify that the class of vehicle corresponds to the one registered for this particular transponder. The same process occurs when the vehicle exits the highway. The entry and exit data are then matched and the transponder account holder is debited. When the route is exited, the transponder gives a green signal followed by four short beeps to indicate a successful completion of the transaction.

Processing Unregistered Vehicles:
Transponders are mandatory for heavy vehicles, i.e. vehicles with a gross weight of 5,000 kg. However, light vehicles can use the 407 ETR without registering. When a motorist without a transponder enters the highway and passes under the two tolling gantries, the system triggers a set of digital cameras to take pictures of the rear number plate of the vehicle from different angles. In order to get good images, a set of lights are turned on before the images are taken. The lights automatically adjust their intensity to ensure the best conditions for taking an image of the number plate. At the same time, the laser scanners are activated to classify the vehicle and tell the toll collection system whether to charge for a passenger or commercial vehicle. The owner of the vehicle is identified by electronic access to government records. The cameras and lights have been tested to ensure accuracy, even in blizzards and rainstorms. However, if the video correlation and image processing fails to determine the license plate with sufficient probability, a human operator has to look at the pictures to make the call.

Payment:
Registered car owners, registered companies, and motorist that used the highway, receive an invoice in the mail at the end of the month containing the trips of all of the vehicles registered with their account. The price of each trip is calculated based on the time of day and distance traveled. In case automatic number plate recognition is used, an additional video toll charge (of $3.50) is applied per trip. Cheating motorists (for instance, motorists using a transponder with an unregistered vehicle, or heavy vehicles taking the highway without a transponder) are fined, and refusal to pay invoices or fines results in plate denial, meaning that a debtor  cannot renew the license plate of his cars or obtain a new license plate from the government until all tolls and fees have been paid.

Hardware / Software Decisions:
The software to be developed has to interface with the hardware devices of the gantry. The development of the software running on the transponders is going to be outsourced to a different company, and hence does not have to be considered for this assignment.
